`Multistage manufacturing processes (MMPs)` consist of multiple identical stages. For example, the rolling mill  widely used in the steel-making industry has multiple stages. The primary function of the mill is to roll reheated semi-finished steel slabs thinner and longer through a series of rolling mill stands.  

Another example of the MMP with multiple stages is additive manufacturing (AM), which is a computer-controlled process that creates three-dimensional objects by depositing materials layer by layer. In the AM process, each layer can be seen as one stage. For such a MMP, all the stages  generate multi-channel time-series signals. 

The multi-channel process data from a MMP typically vary from one product to another and are associated with the quality of products. 
<!-- This is because when fabricating products, process control parameters are adjusted (in real-time) by a closed-loop feedback control algorithm for product quality guarantees, which results in the change of process data. Also, the poor performance and/or lack of robustness of the control algorithm leads to inappropriate process control parameter values that result in product quality defects.   -->
Since the multi-channel process data are associated with product quality defects, they can be used for the defect root cause diagnosis, which focuses on identifying the crucial process variables as well as their stage locations whose inappropriate values are responsible for the quality defect of products. Quality defect diagnosis plays an important role in product quality control since diagnostic results can be used to guide the modification of the feedback control algorithm to reduce the probability of fabricating defective products in the future.  

Quality defect diagnosis can usually be achieved by employing data science methods that establish a mapping between a product's quality index and its multi-channel process data. This approach enables the identification of the subset of critical process variables and their stage locations that exhibit a strong association with product quality defects. We propose matrix- and tensor-based quality fault diagnostic methods that automatically identify informative process variables and stages in a multi-stage hot rolling mill in the steel-making industry using newly developed regularization formula and efficient optimization algorithms.