`Digital twins` are often considered as physics-based computer models consisting of complex mathematical functions. A successful digital twin must replicate the physical system's behavior with high fidelity. This is done through `model calibration` by bringing the digital responses closer to the physical observations. 

One application is `building energy systems`. As the building sector contributes approximately three-quarters of the U.S. electricity loads, analyzing building energy consumption patterns becomes essential in grid-interactive building operations. In response, 
<!-- the U.S. Department of Energy's National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL)  -->
NREL developed a building energy model (BEM), which can simulate the energy use of a building under various weather conditions and operational scenarios. To obtain accurate simulations, it is necessary to calibrate parameters that specify building conditions regarding heating, ventilation, and cooling (HVAC), lighting, process loads, etc. However, there are several challenges to hinder the effective use of the BEM such as existence of seasonal heterogenous output, model bias, and high dimensional parameters. We address these issues with newly developed statistical methodologies.  

Another application is `wind power systems`, one of the fastest-growing areas in renewable energy. In multi-turbine wind farms, it is crucial to quantify wake effects, as they substantially affect the power generation performance. The wake represents the wind shade cast by upwind turbines to the downwind area, where it causes a reduction in wind speed, leading to energy loss in downstream turbines. Thus, quantifying wake effects is of great importance for optimally controlling wind turbines. The engineering models that characterize the wake effects typically introduce parameters that require calibration. We need to specify a wake decay coefficient that quantifies the power deficits in downstream turbines. Three are some obstacles to effectively calibrate the parameters including their heterogenous behaviors. We address these challenges with a new statistical modeling scheme.